vimesMulti
==========

*vimesMulti* is a package for detecting disease outbreak clusters from temporal and spatial suveillance data using group-specific epidemiological parameters.

Infectious disease epidemiological parameters such as serial interval, transmission distance and reporting probabilities may vary between groups. For example. reporting probabilities may be higher for children than adults. 
vimesMulti uses a simulation approach to incorporate these differences in group-specific epidemiological parameters during outbreak cluster detection. It is an extension to the existing *vimes* package which uses a graph-based method for outbreak cluster detection.  
 


<br>

Installation
-------------

To install the development version from github:

```r
library(devtools)
devtools::install_github("sarahhayes/vimesMulti",build = TRUE)
```


Then, to load the package, use:

```r
library("vimesMulti")
```


<br>

Documentation
-------------
In the following descriptions we describe three different types of transmission event: 
* group 1 to group 1 (G1G1)
* group 1 to group 2 _or_ group 2 to group 1 (mixed)
* group 2 to group 2 (G2G2)


Main functions: 

***get_quantiles_multi***

Uses a simulation approach to generate group-specific cut-off values for subsequent graph pruning during cluster identification. 


***set_cutoff***

Allows the user to manually specify cut-off values for each group. Three values need to be specified - one for each transmission type (G1G1, mised, G2G2)


***vimes_multi***

Performs cluster detection using the group-specific cut-off values for each transmission type using either the cut-off values generated by *get_quantiles_multi* or those specified by the user in *set_cutoff* 



It also comes with a vignette which can be found at https://sarahhayes.github.io/vimesMulti-website/vignette
